Good morning, everyone.
My name is James Craig.
I'm a member of the
Apple Accessibility team.
What you're going to see
here is years of work,
a culmination of years of work
by a lot of different people,
and so I'm really thrilled that I get
to be the one to share it with you.
So first off, who here by a show of hands
knows or thinks they know what
I mean by the term accessibility?
Okay, good number.
Some of you are probably
content publishers,
and you may be aware that
you need to make your content
compliant or accessible,
and you're not really
sure what that means.
And so we're going to cover some of that,
figure out how to test with VoiceOver,
figure out where your problems
are so you'll know what to fix.
and some of you are developers.
This is a developer conference after
all and so you may already be aware of
accessibility and certain techniques but
you're not really sure which ones are the
right ones to use in certain situations.
So we're going to give you a bunch
of examples and talk about how to
make your book content specifically
as accessible as possible to as
wide an audience as possible.
But accessibility isn't really
about code or compliance or
techniques to use or even testing.
Accessibility at its core
is really about people.
And that includes people who may be
using a computing device for the first
time in their life and even if they
don't consider themselves disabled,
maybe they don't see as well as
they used to or maybe they don't
hear as well as they used to.
It includes people that may be accessing
course content or watching a video,
even if that means that they need to
watch it with the captions turned on.
And still,
it means people that just want to
access the same content and have
access to the same tools and read the
same books that everyone else does,
even if they don't have the same
abilities that everyone else does.
And I'm not talking about
small numbers either.
50 million people in the US alone,
worldwide numbers are
unknown but obviously larger.
Some of you may think,
"I don't really relate to that.
I don't know anybody with a
disability." Chances are you're
wrong and you just don't realize it.
Colorblindness, for example,
is one of the more common disabilities.
It affects, in the male population,
about 8%. That's 1 in 12.
Just looking around the room
and given the stats of the
Developer Conference this year,
there's probably quite a few people in
the room here that are affected by this.
Out of that 50 million,
31 million have a hearing impairment.
10 million people have
a vision impairment.
And I'm not talking about
people that wear glasses,
I'm talking about people with
severe non-correctable vision
impairments like usually people
who are blind or legally blind.
And so I'm glad I get a chance to
talk to you about iOS today because
it's had accessibility features built
in since iOS 3 for three years now.
Captions going farther back than that.
And we've done a lot of hard work.
We're trying to put in a lot of the work
so that you don't have to do everything.
And some of the features are a screen
reader for people who are blind,
Zoom for people with low vision,
captions and LED flash and custom
vibrations for people who maybe
have hearing impairments and
more features for people with
physical motor impairments and most
recently with learning impairments.
and the disability
advocacy groups love us.
We get quotes like this one from RNIB,
which is a blindness
advocacy group in the UK.
When it comes to embedding accessibility,
Apple set a standard in recent years.
That's pretty amazing.
We love to hear stuff like that.
And iBooks is no exception.
It's had accessibility built in since
the original release with the first iPad.
and this is a quote from Bradley Hodges
of the American Foundation for the Blind.
"I believe that accessible iBooks
will be viewed by future generations
as one of the landmark events
in the lives of the blind." Now,
how huge is that, right?
That's a great responsibility.
It's a great responsibility for us,
but it's also a great responsibility
for you as the content publishers.
Now, I said that iBooks has
accessibility built in,
but there are a few things that
you need to do to make sure
your content is 100% accessible.
And that's what we're
going to cover today.
So, first off, we're going to cover basic
HTML accessibility in EPUB books.
We're going to cover how to use
VoiceOver to test your books,
both EPUB and iBooks author books,
so that you can know
where the problems are.
I'm going to show you some new features
of iBooks Author for accessibility.
And we're going to talk about how to
make custom HTML5 widgets so that you can
embed rich interactive web applications
inside your iBooks Author books.
So, has anyone here used EPUB before?
Familiar with EPUB a little bit?
It's the most common e-book standard.
Novels, for example,
most of the ones that you would
buy on the iBook store and EPUB.
And you don't need to know anything
specific about the file format other
than it's basically a zip folder.
It has a couple metadata files,
but most of the content
inside of it is web content.
So, it's HTML pages,
one or more HTML pages,
and all the resources
that go along with that.
So, CSS, JavaScript, and images.
One of the things I want you to keep in
mind about images is that some images
look better on certain backgrounds,
dark backgrounds, light backgrounds.
Some images have transparency.
And if you're lucky like us,
you'll get a design team that takes
care to make sure all of the images
that are transparent or should be
transparent are transparent so they
look great on all different backgrounds,
whether that be black or white.
But there's always multiple
versions of the images.
Or maybe there's a, you know,
someone's made a mistake with an image.
or maybe it was intended
for another context.
This one, for example,
looks great on white.
But because of a transparency error,
because of a transparency issue,
it wasn't maybe intended
for a black background,
it doesn't convey the same meaning.
It may be completely legible
on different backgrounds.
That's one of the things
I want you to test.
Let's take a look at an iBook.
This is our sample iBook.
It's about astronomy.
And I
It has some great images of space here.
Let's see what they look
like on a dark background.
I'm going to switch it to night mode.
Sure enough, it looks great.
These are space images.
There's no transparency in here.
In fact, they look even better
on the black background.
So we don't have trouble here,
but if you're looking at your books,
double-check them in
all different themes.
But I'm more concerned about people
that can't see the images at all.
If you have a book, like a textbook,
like this astronomy book or maybe a
story like Winnie the Pooh where the
images are an illustrated children's
story where the images are an
important part of the content,
then a reader who can't see those images
would be missing a big portion of it.
VoiceOver already does a great job of
reading the text that's on the screen,
and so we need you to give us a
little bit of information about
the content of those images.
So the way that you would
display an image in HTML,
this is kind of the bare minimum.
You have an image tag with a
source attribute that points to the
file name of the image resource.
Accessibility is important enough that
this wouldn't even be valid at EPUB.
It wouldn't be valid HTML.
Accessibility is important enough
that the alt attribute is actually
a requirement for validation.
So you wouldn't even be able to push this
book up to the iBook store at this point.
And so some publishers know about this
constraint and they do this to fix it.
They give it an empty alt attribute.
And this is okay in some circumstances
if it's a purely decorative
image like maybe a decorative
horizontal rule between paragraphs.
That's okay.
But chances are most of your images in
your books are actually content images.
And so sometimes we catch people
doing something like this,
alt equals image,
which is not really any better.
In fact, it might be a little bit worse.
And the fact that it doesn't
give us any kind of information,
we'll see alt equals illustration or alt
equals photograph or alt equals chart.
Maybe chart's a little bit better,
but it still doesn't
give us the full picture.
It doesn't give us any useful information
about the content of the image.
And so what you need to do is actually
provide a human-readable sentence or,
you know,
short phrase that describes the content
of the image in enough detail for the
user to get the point of why it's there.
And that allows an accessible book
to go from something like this to
something more like this where the
images are actually read out as text
and that allows the reader to paint
a picture in their mind of the book
author's intention which is really
what books are all about anyway.
And so to show you how this
works in iBooks with VoiceOver,
I'm going to bring up
Jason Barry to the stage.
Jason?
Thank you.
As James said, my name is Jason Barry.
I'm a technical writer on the
developer publications team.
And part of my job is to make
sure that content that we publish
can be accessible for everyone,
regardless of ability or disability.
Not because it expands our reader base,
which is nice,
but because it's the right thing to do.
So first I'm going to show you
how to enable VoiceOver in iOS.
Then we'll talk about some basic
VoiceOver gestures and how to
use those gestures in iBooks.
So we'll go over to my iPad here.
VoiceOver can be turned on,
can be found in the Settings app.
and the general pane near the
bottom under Accessibility.
And here you'll see all of the assistive
technologies that iOS has to offer.
These settings help people with vision,
hearing,
learning and physical impairments.
We'll be talking about VoiceOver today.
Here I have settings
specific to VoiceOver.
I can do things like
adjust the speaking rate.
I can also turn on or off hints.
Hints provide more descriptions to
elements that the VoiceOver cursor is on.
And it's great if you're new to
VoiceOver or trying to learn VoiceOver.
But since I already know
how to use VoiceOver,
I'm going to turn it off.
So here we can turn VoiceOver on,
but I'll show you a tip on how
you can quickly turn VoiceOver on
and off from anywhere in iOS.
Let's go back to the Accessibility pane,
and at the very bottom,
there's a setting for triple-click Home.
Now if I select VoiceOver,
by triple-clicking the home button,
I can toggle VoiceOver on and
off from anywhere within iOS.
And this is great,
especially if you're testing VoiceOver.
So let's go back to the home screen.
I'll show you some basic
VoiceOver gestures.
We'll turn VoiceOver on by hitting the
home button three times like we just set.
Landscape, VoiceOver on, Messages.
And here you'll see this
black rounded rectangle.
That's the VoiceOver cursor.
And VoiceOver will read anything
contained by that VoiceOver focus.
Now VoiceOver changes the way
that taps and gestures are
interpreted by the screen.
You'll see as I drag my finger,
VoiceOver, instead of activating an app,
it will read it aloud.
New stand folder.
Zero items.
This is helpful because it prevents
accidental touches and gives
VoiceOver users the freedom to
navigate the screen without worrying
about accidentally touching
something that they didn't mean.
You'll see as I drag my finger
around that the cursor follows it.
Reminders.
Clock.
Photo booth.
FaceTime.
There are other gestures I can
use like the one-finger swipe.
When I swipe to the right,
it goes to the next item,
and when I swipe to the left,
it goes to the previous item.
Camera, Maps, YouTube, Clock, YouTube,
Maps You'll also notice that the
VoiceOver cursor automatically
wraps around the edge,
and it goes to the
second row of apps here.
It treats all items like a linear list.
So let's use iBooks now.
I'll tap on it.
Doc, iBooks.
And once the VoiceOver cursor
is over something,
I can double-tap anywhere on
the screen to activate it.
iBooks, Library, Button.
So I can use my finger to
explore and read line by line.
Page 3 of 12.
Diameter of approximately
100... several months.
Jansky eventually... fixed object,
come back to the same
location in the sky.
Now, you'll see here I'm near
the end of the page.
When I continue reading,
VoiceOver will automatically turn the
page for me to ensure a continuous
and smooth reading experience.
I'll use the two-finger swipe
down gesture to restart reading
from my current position.
Come back to the same
location in the sky.
Thus Jansky suspected that the
hiss originated well beyond
the Earth's atmosphere and
by comparing his observations
with optical astronomical map.
And I can use the two
finger tap gesture to pause.
And here we have an image,
and this e-book is really
great because the alt text is
specified inside the image.
So the description will be read
aloud when we encounter it.
Again, I'll use the two-finger swipe
down gesture to start reading
from our current position.
His observations with
optical astronomical maps.
Jansky concluded that the radiation
was coming from the Milky Way galaxy
and was strongest in the direction
of the center of the galaxy in
the constellation of Sagittarius.
Image.
The very large array,
an interferometric array formed
from many smaller radio telescopes,
each dish 25 meters in diameter.
The range of frequencies in
the electromagnetic spectra...
And a two-finger tap to pause.
So now this book is
accessible to everyone.
Now I'll pass it back to James,
who's going to talk more
about iBooks Author.
Thanks, Jason.
So let's cover what
we've learned about this.
First of all, view all your images in
all different contexts,
different themes.
Make sure they look right.
Make sure they read as well and
are legible in all contexts.
Label all of your content
images as you would in HTML.
Now, this is for content images.
This is real human readable text.
It should be localized if you have
different versions of the books.
And test your books with VoiceOver.
Now,
this is really critical and I'm going
to come back to it over and over,
but it's an important
part of the picture.
So let's talk about iBooks Author.
It's released earlier this year
and we think it's a game changer.
It allows content producers
and book designers to create
rich and engaging content.
We have some beautiful examples on the
iBooks store such as this one by E.O.
Wilson.
And you can embed interactive controls
like this video or HTML5 widgets like
this one in the bottom right corner.
But there's still some things that
you'll need to do to make sure your
content is as accessible as possible.
The first thing I want to talk about
is adjustable font sizes.
Now, you don't have to do
anything special for this.
This is built into iBooks.
I just want to tell you how it works.
If you're familiar with using iBooks,
there's a toolbar button to allow
you to adjust your font size.
In iBooks Author Books,
we allow a lot of design control for
the content publisher and the designer.
You can add sidebar content like
this or you could drop a video in
between multiple columns of text.
If the user were to
resize their font here,
the layout wouldn't look as
intended by the content publisher.
And so we have an innovative design
solution that allows control and design
from the publisher but also allows
readability for all users no matter what
their reading font size preference is.
So when you turn the device to
portrait orientation and the font
size toolbar comes back and you can
adjust the font size to whatever
your comfortable reading level is.
Again,
you don't have to do anything special.
It's built-in.
I just want you to know how it works.
Color concerns is another issue
that you'll have to think about,
especially because we know
people are going to be embedding
charts and graphs and other rich,
beautiful, interactive material.
This is an example of what not to do.
As I mentioned before,
about 8% of the male population
has a form of color blindness.
Those of you who may be familiar
with it may know that red and
green is the most common form.
The ability to differentiate between
blue and orange is also one of the types.
And so this information is
presented only with color.
So the key thing to remember
here is not which colors you use,
but don't present
information with color alone.
So this is how it may look to someone
with a particular vision impairment.
And there's a lot of ways,
I mean obviously this is ridiculous,
right?
Doesn't make any sense at all.
But there's a lot of ways that we
can retrofit this and some of it is
the way you design the chart and some
of it is maybe a little bit in the
colors that you choose based on value.
For example, we could make a darker blue,
for example,
so even though the orange was there,
it was lighter.
But that's not going
to work for all users.
And so the critical bit that we added
to this retrofit was that we added the
percentages to the key here as well.
Now, this is a design afterthought.
There's a lot of ways that we could
redo this to make it even better.
But the critical bit here is that even
if you took away the rest of that chart,
The user can still see the point
of the information from this.
Now, to give you a better example of
[Transcript missing]
and the designers used red and green.
It's the most common form of
color blindness that prevents some
users from seeing red and green.
It's okay to use color.
Color is inherent in our culture.
It means stop and go.
It means right and wrong.
In this case, it means incorrect answer,
incorrect answer.
But in addition to that color,
they backed it up with something else.
So there's a checkmark on the green,
correct answers,
and there's an X on the red,
incorrect answers.
Another thing that you
want to keep in mind,
especially if you're
embedding video in your books,
is captions and subtitles.
So I've got a video that I want to play
for you and I want you to tell me by,
or just think about what it might mean.
This video makes no sense,
especially talking head videos.
They make no sense because all
of the content of this video
is conveyed through the audio.
So, obviously,
captions are a requirement for
people with hearing impairments,
people who are deaf or hard of hearing.
but they also provide a lot
of universal design benefit.
So there may be a student who's in
the library and they're reviewing
book content and they want...
They want to view the video but they
don't want to disturb other people
and they don't have their headphones.
Or you may be riding the bus home and
you have your headphones but due to
the noise of the crowd or the noise of
traffic you can't hear it over the den.
So keep that in mind and think
about how it benefits all users,
including those with disabilities.
The last thing I want to
mention is descriptive labels.
This is just like the alt text
that we talked about in EPUB.
Except in iBooks Author,
you do it a different way.
So here we have a photo of Jupiter.
You can see that there are swirling
gas clouds in the great red spot.
Instead of writing the alt text in code
or the alternative description in code,
we have this widget inspector
and down at the bottom we have
the accessibility description.
This is where we're going to
put in some text that describes
this image such as "Wide shot of
Jupiter with squirreling glass
clouds including the great red spot.
A storm so large it dwarfs our own
Earth." That gives the user a good
description of what's on screen here.
Likewise,
if we have a widget such as this one,
there are multiple pieces to this widget.
So one accessibility
description would not do.
So we've got the drag targets and the
drop targets and the background image.
And if you look down in the
accessibility description,
there's this pop-up menu.
And if you click it,
it allows you to select each different
item in this widget and give an
accessibility description for each.
and so I'm going to bring Jason back
up to the stage to talk about how
that works and show you iBooks Author.
So here I have a textbook that
I created with iBooks Author.
It's really cool and I can't wait
to publish it on the iBook store.
But I haven't yet tested
for accessibility.
So what would happen if a
VoiceOver user tried to read my book?
Well, let's find out.
I'll turn VoiceOver on.
VoiceOver on.
iBooks.
Section 1.
And the text can automatically
be read aloud by VoiceOver.
But what happens when the
user encounters an image?
000015027267 Medium, Image.
It sounds like gibberish.
That's because we haven't added
any accessibility descriptions
in iBooks Author yet.
Let's go on to the next page.
I'll use the three-finger swipe gesture.
Page three,
WAI is part of the local group
of... And two fingers to pause.
Since VoiceOver helps people
with visual impairments,
and we're looking at this video now,
we're talking about captions which really
helps people with hearing impairments,
I'm going to temporarily
turn VoiceOver off.
VoiceOver off.
Let's play the video.
Firing Chain is armed.
Sound Suppression Water System activated.
T-minus 13, 12, 11.
The video looks great,
but if I had a hearing impairment,
I'd have no idea that there was a
speaker talking in the background.
I'll show you how in a moment
to remedy this problem.
Onto the next page we have
an interactive quiz widget.
I'll turn VoiceOver on.
VoiceOver on: Landscape.
VoiceOver on: iBooks.
WAI is part of the local group of...
And like the image,
I haven't yet added an
accessibility description.
So if I was a VoiceOver user
and I encountered these image
thumbnails at the bottom,
it would read something like this.
Quiz.
Image 1 label.
Image.
Image 2 label.
Image 3 label.
Image.
Again, not very helpful, not descriptive.
I have no idea what these are images of.
And on to the next page.
Page 5, Interactive Model,
Interactive 1.1,
Explore Our Solar System.
We have a custom HTML widget.
Now,
to show you the features of the widget,
I'm going to turn VoiceOver off.
VoiceOver off.
and I'll open it up here.
Now custom HTML widgets are a
great way to add personality and
character to your books and make
them stand out above the rest.
So here we have a grid of 12 planets.
I can just tap on one and
a modal dialogue appears.
I can scroll through here and see
more images of this planet or read
a brief synopsis at the bottom.
And when I'm done,
I can just tap this button down here
and return to the grid of planets.
But I haven't yet made
this widget accessible.
So what would happen if a
VoiceOver user tried to use this widget?
It would sound something like this.
VoiceOver on iBooks.
Sun 1 JPG.
Image.
Sun 2 JPG.
Sun 3 JPG.
Image.
The sun.
The sun is the star at the
center of the solar system.
So two things are going wrong here.
One is that VoiceOver is reading the
content that's on the modal dialogues.
It doesn't know that
that's hidden from view,
so we have to explicitly
tell it that in our code.
You can see the outline
here is on the text,
which is actually hidden from view.
And secondly, we haven't specified any
alt text for our images,
so it's just reading the file name.
And that was that Sun 1 JPG, Sun 2 JPG.
We'll need to add some
more descriptive text.
So I'm going to switch over to my Mac.
Turn VoiceOver off here.
VoiceOver off.
And now we have the same copy of
the iBook that I just showed you
on my iPad here in iBooks Author.
All right, so how do we go ahead
and make this accessible?
With iBooks Author, it's really easy.
All you do is select the image and
go up here to the Expector panel.
And the last inspector,
the widget inspector
under the layout tab,
I have a place called
Accessibility Description.
And anything I type in here
will be read aloud by VoiceOver.
So I'll go ahead and paste in some text.
Now onto my video.
We want to add captions to this video.
Now, creating captions is outside
the scope of this demo.
But I have a video right here
with captions already embedded.
So I'll just go ahead and drag that
right on the video placeholder.
You'll notice too that
when I drag a new video on,
it automatically resets the poster frame.
So if we go back to the Interaction tab,
we can drag this adjustment right here,
this slider, to the frame that we desire.
onto our interactive widget.
Adding accessibility to this is just
like adding accessibility to an image.
I'll click on it.
And down here,
you'll see a new drop-down menu.
This will allow me to specify a unique
description for each label and target.
When it says image one label here,
that's referring to this first thumbnail.
This is the image label.
And two and three and four respectively.
And their targets are above.
That's what these are.
And I can drag this anywhere
on the image that I deem fit.
So let's go ahead and type some things.
Some accessibility
descriptions right inside here.
Again, I'm adding a description to
this first thumbnail here.
So I'll go ahead and type in a gaseous
giant characterized by its red spot.
And for its target,
I'll type in Jupiter,
the fifth planet from the sun.
Now, it's important that you don't give
away the answer in your descriptions.
And what I mean by that is
notice that in this example,
I didn't say Jupiter in both
the label and the target.
Because VoiceOver will
read the description aloud,
it will say Jupiter to both.
And the point of this
widget is to quiz the user.
And that's no fun if
I give away the answer.
So instead I just wrote a gaseous giant.
I described the image instead
of calling it by its name.
and finally we have
our custom HTML widget.
We'll touch on that in a bit.
Great.
So I just made my book a
little more accessible.
So I'll save my work and then hit the
preview button to transfer it to my iPad.
Now,
I've already gone ahead and done that.
So we'll switch over to the iPad
and I'll load up the accessible
version that incorporates the
changes you just saw me make.
So now let's turn VoiceOver on.
VoiceOver on.
iBooks.
Section 1.
So how does our image sound now?
A radio telescope on the
lookout for developers who
don't label their photographs.
Image.
Much more descriptive.
On to the next page.
Page 3.
WAI is part of the
Let's play our video.
I'll turn VoiceOver off,
like I said before.
VoiceOver off.
And play the video.
Firing chain is armed.
Sound suppression water system activated.
T minus 13, 12.
But wait, our captions aren't showing up.
That's because closed captions
are disabled by default.
We'll have to re-enable them in settings.
So I'll double tap the home button
to bring up the app switcher.
And in settings, Under the video tab,
is closed captioning.
And I can just switch that on.
Now when I go back to my book, I
You can restart the video here
and you'll see the captions.
Firing chain is armed.
Sound suppression water system activated.
T-minus 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8.
Go for main engine start.
6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
Zero and liftoff of
Space Shuttle Atlantis,
reaching the crest of its
historic achievements in space.
I love that video.
Now we have our interactive quiz widget.
Now, as a sighted user,
I can gather just by looking at it that
I'm supposed to pick up these thumbnails
and drag them to their respective images,
their respective drop targets above.
And part of the feedback that I get
when I initiate a drag is very subtle
and I want you to pay close attention.
Look at all the little things
that happen when I start dragging.
The thumbnail grows,
turns semi-transparent,
and when I approach a drop target,
that target grows and turns blue.
And this feedback helps me
understand the state of this widget.
But how can I take advantage of that
visual feedback if I couldn't see?
Well, VoiceOver changes the visual
feedback into audio feedback.
Let me show you what I mean.
I'll turn VoiceOver on.
VoiceOver on.
iBooks.
WAI is part of the local...
And now when I select an image thumbnail,
not only will it read the
accessibility description that
I inputted with iBooks Author,
A dark, desolate rock,
far from the light of its nearest star.
Image.
But if I had hints enabled,
it would say something like
"Double tap and hold to drag."
So I'm going to do that
and it will announce to me
where the drop targets are,
where I'm supposed to drag this image.
So I'll do the double
tap and hold gesture.
started dragging a dark, desolate rock.
Drop targets are above.
I'll just move on up.
On Mars, the fourth planet from the sun.
On Jupiter,
the fifth planet from the sun.
On Pluto, the Ninth Planet,
until its excommunication from
the planetary community in 2006.
Stop dragging a dark,
desolate rock far from the
light of its nearest star.
So with that audio feedback,
I can understand I have a
gathering of where I am and how
to navigate with this widget.
But you might be thinking to
yourself that I have a bias
because I can see the screen.
So what I'm going to do is
turn on the screen curtain.
And screen curtain is
a VoiceOver feature.
It's all about privacy,
so a VoiceOver user doesn't feel
that someone's overlooking their
shoulder and looking at their screen.
and you can turn on screen curtain
with a three-finger triple tap.
Screen curtain on.
So now we can't see the screen,
but I can still use the
VoiceOver gestures that
I taught you earlier.
I'll use the one-finger swipe to the
right to select the next image label.
The red, rocky surface of a planet.
Image.
Sounds like Mars to me,
so I'm going to pick it up.
started dragging the red
drop targets are above.
And move my finger up.
On Pluto, the ninth planet,
and on Jupiter,
the fifth planet from the sun.
Still too far out.
On Mars, the fourth planet from the sun.
There we are.
Now I'll lift my finger.
Stop dragging the red,
rocky surface of a planet.
And swipe to the right
to check my answer.
Check answer button.
Correct answer.
Clear answer.
Button.
Great.
So I just got the audio feedback
that I indeed got the correct answer.
And when I turn screen curtain
off... Screen curtain off.
You can see that I did and
that the button changed from
check answer to clear answer.
Now I'm going to pass it back to
James who will tell you how to make
custom HTML widgets accessible.
Let's cover what we've learned.
Again, font size adjustments are
already built into iBooks.
You don't have to do anything special.
Don't convey meaning with color alone.
Just to repeat,
we're not saying don't use color.
That would be ridiculous.
Color is a great learning tool.
We're just saying make sure
that the ability to perceive
color is in a requirement in
order to access the information
that you include in your books.
You want to add captions or subtitles
to a video where appropriate.
Obviously, any time you have information
conveyed through the audio channel,
you want to make that available to
people with hearing impairments,
but also benefits people who may be
in a situation where they can't hear
due to some technical constraint.
Add alternative text
for images and widgets.
And test your books with VoiceOver.
We wouldn't even have known where
to start to fix these problems if
we hadn't tested with VoiceOver.
And we wouldn't even have known
if the changes had worked unless
we had gone back and tested
after we made our changes.
So let's talk about that
custom HTML widget that he
showed at the beginning.
Anybody here familiar with widgets?
Anybody developed a dashboard
or iBooks widget before?
Okay, a few.
Like EPUB, it's not the same file format,
but like EPUB,
it's basically a folder of content.
In that folder,
there's some metadata files like a plist,
but it's mostly HTML content again,
so images and CSS and
JavaScript and HTML pages,
one or more.
And like HTML, or because it's HTML,
all of the accessibility techniques
that you know about HTML still apply,
so labeling images with the alt
attribute still works and labeling
form elements with the label tag
and the for attribute still works.
But HTML only goes so far.
It was originally designed
for static documents.
More recently, people have been using
it for web applications,
but there's some semantics
that get lost in there,
and HTML5 is fixing some of that,
but there's still some places
where HTML falls short,
and that's where ARIA comes in.
It's a W3C specification and
it allows web pages to declare
themselves as applications and
give additional semantics about
the parts of their application.
Like this thing is a button and
it's disabled or this thing is
a slider and its value is 64% or
this thing is hidden from view now,
this thing is a dialogue.
So let's talk about how to use it.
First of all,
we're going to assign semantic roles.
So on the front of this planet
widget or solar system widget,
we have the sun and the
moon and ten planets,
including the I planet or planet X.
And each one of these
things represents a button.
But as Jason will show you in the code,
it was just a meaningless,
semantically meaningless div
with a class affront on it.
And so we're actually going to
add role equals button to that.
And this will tell WebKit, rather,
to send that information to
the accessibility API and
VoiceOver can read that and
understand that this is a button.
Likewise, on the back side of this,
we have these dialogues,
but they're just another div,
and it's got more content in it,
but we want to associate this with
the type of application dialogue.
Now,
there is no HTML attribute for dialogue.
There used to be one that was about
dialogue or discussion between people,
but I don't even think
that's around anymore.
We're talking about
application dialogues.
So the next thing you want to do is
update your states and properties.
So in addition to the fact
that this is a button,
we also want to give it
a label such as the moon.
And remember, at this point,
the dialogue that's on the
backside is actually hidden
from view to the sighted user.
And so we want to make sure that
VoiceOver knows that as well.
So we're going to say this
dialogue or these dialogues that
are out of view now are hidden
via this ARIA hidden attribute.
Now when we show that dialogue,
we have to update the state.
And so we're going to dynamically
change that hidden state to false,
making it shown.
It's already in view because
we showed it with some CSS,
but we're also going to make sure
that VoiceOver can see this now too.
and likewise the buttons that are
on the front are now hidden from
view so we want to make sure that
VoiceOver knows that those shouldn't
be accessible at this point.
So we're going to set those to be hidden.
The last bit of the chain is
that you want to manage focus.
Now when we have this button
on the front and we tap,
there's an animation that occurs
and so a side user can see,
oh hey, now we're on this dialogue.
But the VoiceOver cursor is just going
to hang out on that button still.
So what we want to do is
move it into the dialogue.
So we're going to focus the first
element in the dialogue such as
this image and the VoiceOver cursor
will come along with it.
And likewise, when we hide that dialogue,
we want to focus the trigger element
or the element that it came from.
So they click the moon button and
they were in the moon dialogue.
So when they dismiss the moon dialogue,
they should go back to the moon button.
And it reorients the user and lets
them know how this application works.
The next thing that I want you
to know about ARIA is it's really
good at retrofitting old content.
So for that class up front,
we could have re-architected
the application.
We could have changed this to
use a button element in HTML.
But we don't have to.
ARIA allows us to go back in.
You may have inherited code before
that didn't have certain features.
And so it allows you to easily go
back in and change things so you
don't have to gut your application.
You can also set these properties
using the DOMSetAttribute method.
A lot of people ask me,
how do I know when I'm supposed
to update these ARIA properties?
How do I know when I add one of
these attributes or remove or
change one of these attributes?
A good indication is if
you're changing element style.
In this case,
if you change a class name to something
like hidden or if you change a style,
especially if it's something like a
meaningful class name like highlight or
active or focused or selected or hidden,
that's usually a good indication that you
want to update an ARIA attribute as well.
And so in this case,
we're going to update the
ARIA hidden attribute to true.
Now, I mentioned managing focus.
The key thing to keep in mind is
that VoiceOver cursor focus is
not the same as keyboard focus.
iOS doesn't really have this concept
of keyboard focus except in a couple
places where you can type in text.
And so when I'm talking about
managing focus here on iOS and iBooks,
I'm talking about just moving
the VoiceOver cursor around.
[Transcript missing]
We'll be editing the HTML and
JavaScript of this widget
to make it more accessible.
But first, I want to familiarize
you with this widget.
So right here we have a
div with a class in front.
And that's represented by these
planet icons that you see here.
Now when I click on one,
this modal dialog is represented
by the class of Back.
Alright, so what do we want to do?
How do we want to go about
making this accessible?
Well,
we want to be able to use the one-finger
swipe to the left and right to move the
VoiceOver cursor from planet to planet.
Then when a planet is activated,
We want to be able to shift
focus to this modal dialogue
and then hide the planet buttons
because they're no longer in view.
And likewise,
when the modal dialogue is dismissed,
we want to give focus back
to the grid of planets.
So let's look at our code.
I'm going to go here and
paste in a couple attributes.
Let's talk about each one.
First, I'm assigning this div
with a class of front,
the role of button.
And what that does is tell VoiceOver that
this is indeed a button and it has
further action when I activate it.
VoiceOver will read this
aloud to the user as well.
I'm also giving it a tab index.
Since divs aren't natively focusable,
I have to manually specify a tab
index so that I can programmatically
give focus back to this element.
And then finally,
I'm adding an ARIA label attribute.
And whatever value I put here
for the ARIA label attribute
will be read aloud by VoiceOver.
I can go through my code here and just
go ahead and make it more accessible.
I've already done add the role
of button to the other planets
for the sake of the demo.
We also want to add the role
of dialogue to the back.
This way VoiceOver will read the
contents of the modal dialogue aloud.
We're also giving it the
aria-labeledby attribute.
Now this is similar to the aria-label,
but instead of specifying
a string of text,
I instead reference another element.
This is actually the ID of an element,
sun_h1, that I've specified here.
And here you can see that I have the sun.
Just another way to make
your widget accessible.
And again, I can go through my code
and change it up here.
Make it a little more accessible.
All right.
Let's head over to our JavaScript.
Now, I have some functions that
I've written ahead of time.
And I'll just
Paste it into my code.
Now, I call this function
updateButtonAccessibility.
What it does is it gathers all the
elements with the class of front,
it loops through them,
and then sets the ARIA-hidden attribute
to either true or false depending
on the Boolean value that I pass.
So what this allows me to do is
update the ARIA hidden state of all
the planet icons so I can either
hide them or show them to VoiceOver.
Similarly,
I have a function that I created
called UpdateDialogAccessibility.
And it's just like the
function I went over before,
except now I can pass
in an optional element.
And when I do,
it will only update the ARIA hidden
attribute for the element that I pass.
If I don't pass in an element,
it will find all of the
divs with the class of back.
loop through them and set each attribute
to either true or false depending
on the Boolean value that I provide.
And then finally I just have some
simple wrapper functions here.
So you can easily follow along.
Now what we want to do is
when the widget initializes,
we want to hide the modal dialogues
from being read aloud because they're
not visible to the sighted user.
So at the end of my init function,
I'll just go ahead and
call this function here,
VO hide dialogues.
Great.
Now let's go back to the
dashboard and view our changes.
I'll switch over.
Tap on the widget and hit
Command-R to refresh the widget.
Now I'll turn on VoiceOver by
hitting Command F5.
Widget our solar system.
Our solar system widget.
Widget the sun button.
Great.
Now I can swipe using my finger.
Mercury button.
Venus button.
Earth button.
But what happens when
I activate one of these buttons?
Press Earth button.
You can see that the VoiceOver cursor
is still on that Earth planet icon
that's currently hidden from view.
That's because we need to tell our
widget through JavaScript explicitly to
transfer focus over to this modal dialog.
And you can see as I continue to swipe,
the cursor still jumps from
planet button to planet button.
The Moon button.
Mars button.
All right, so let's go back to
our code and fix this.
I'll turn VoiceOver off.
VoiceOver off.
Now here, I have an event listener.
And this fires every time
that a planet icon is tapped.
And right here,
I have a timeout that fires
when the animation completes.
So this is a great place
to put some more code.
What I'm going to do is just paste
in only three lines of code here.
First what I'm doing is that I'm showing
the modal dialogues to VoiceOver because
they're currently in view.
Next, I manually transfer focus
to the first image that's
represented by a class of pic.
That's this image right here.
Finally,
I hide the buttons from VoiceOver.
That's the Planet buttons
that are no longer in view.
And likewise,
I'll need to do a similar action
when the modal window is dismissed.
So here I'm doing the opposite.
I'm showing the buttons
to VoiceOver because
they're coming into view.
and I'm giving focus back to the
planet from which I left off.
So when I dismiss this modal dialogue,
the VoiceOver cursor will
come back down to earth.
and then finally,
I want to hide the modal dialogues
because they're no longer in view.
Great.
Now let's save this,
head back to our HTML, and finally,
I'm going to add some alt text to
make these images more descriptive.
So I'll just paste over here.
And what it's doing is, as you can see,
adding some more descriptive
descriptions here.
And I'm also manually specifying
a tab index because image -- the
image tag isn't natively focusable.
And I'll go through my code and go ahead
and do that everywhere an image occurs.
Now, I've already done that
for the other planets,
and I'm sure you got the idea.
Now, I'll save my work,
go back to Dashboard,
Refresh the widget and turn on
VoiceOver by hitting Command-F5.
Widget our solar system.
Our solar system widget.
The sun button.
Mercury Button, Venus Button,
Earth Button, the Moon, Mars Button,
Jupiter Button, Saturn Button.
And now when I activate it,
the focus switches to the back.
Press Saturn button.
You are currently on a button.
To click this button,
press Control-Option-Space-Saturn
with six items.
Dialogue,
artist rendering of Saturn and its rings.
Image.
And I can swipe through and see all
the images here on the back side.
A pale, striped,
gas giant with stunning rings.
Image.
Close-up of Saturn showing huge
storms in its atmosphere and dramatic
shadows cast by and on its rings.
Image.
Now that's much better.
I can also read this
synopsis at the bottom.
Heading level one, Saturn.
Saturn is the sixth planet from
the sun and the second largest
planet in the solar system.
After.
Use the two-finger tap to pause.
And now I can return
to my list of planets.
Back to list of planets button.
Press back to list Saturn button.
And you'll notice that the
VoiceOver cursor comes back to
the planet from which we came.
You are currently on the button.
To click this button,
press VoiceOver off.
I'll turn VoiceOver off.
Now I'll pass it back to
James who will wrap up for us.
So let's review what we've learned.
Standard HTML accessibility
techniques still apply.
You can still label your images with the
alt text if you need to label something
that represents an image or a button or
something that's not natively in HTML.
You can add the aria-label attribute.
And like I said, HTML only goes so far,
so there is no dialogue element.
There is no -- well, until recently,
there was no slider element.
So there's a lot of places where
ARIA can update the semantics of
your application where HTML cannot.
You want to manage focus.
So any time your
application state changes,
as it did when we flipped from
the front of those buttons to
the back of one of the dialogs,
you want to move focus in
so that VoiceOver knows that
that event has occurred too.
and test, test,
test your books with VoiceOver.
So that's an overview of
accessibility in iBooks.
Some of the takeaways that
I want you to walk away with
are that books are for everyone.
Education is a great equalizer and
that benefit of education through
books should be available to all people
including those with disabilities.
Likewise, accessibility is for everyone.
Sometimes it has the stigma of
it's just for a small group of
people so I shouldn't be doing this.
As you saw in the example
of closed captions,
there can be a lot of benefit
besides the necessity that is
needed for people with disabilities.
Accessibility is for everyone including
those with disabilities but not
limited to those with disabilities.
And adding accessibility
to books is really easy.
For the most part,
we were just adding alternative text.
So we added alternative text
to the images and the widgets.
And in a similar way,
we added alternative text to the
video when we added captions.
Even the complex example
of the HTML5 widget,
the complexity in that was
actually creating the widget.
Making that widget was a bigger deal.
Adding accessibility was relatively
trivial once we figured out what the
problems were and what we needed to do.
We did that by testing with VoiceOver.
I can't say this enough.
It would be completely ridiculous if
any of you developed a Cocoa application
and never built it and ran it.
Or if you designed a web page and had
all your CSS animations coded and never
actually loaded it up in a browser.
But we see people do this all the time.
They'll make changes for
accessibility and they'll never
go back and test it in VoiceOver.
So this is absolutely critical.
If you have more questions,
you can contact Vicki Murley, who is our
Safari Technologies Evangelist.
You can find out more about
VoiceOver and other Apple accessibility
products on apple.com/accessibility,
including videos on how to use VoiceOver,
including the trackpad commander,
which is a feature that Jason was using
on the Mac that makes the Mac trackpad
work like the iOS touchscreen does.
You can find out more about ARIA at
the W3C website and feel free
to post on the developer forums.
A few related sessions that happened
earlier in the week that you can
go back and review the videos on
iTunes are Accessibility for OSX,
Building Books with iBooks Author,
Accessibility for iOS, and HTML, CSS,
and DOM for Book Authors.
and that's it.
So thank you all for making the world
a more accessible place for everyone.